---
layout: post
title: "Alan Turning and The Enigma Machine"
categories: daily
excerpt: "If the load can be distributed better through out time, less infrastructure is needed, less resources are needed."
tags:
  - daily
  - green
  - environment
  - global warming
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-10-22T20:01:17-06:00
modified: 2016-10-22T20:01:17-06:00
---

Today I rewatched the movie The Imitation Game. The movie is about a famous mathematitian who, with his team, helped win WWII by creating a device (a primitive computer) that could break the Nazi code. 

See [Enigma Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enigma_machine)

I then decided it be fun, since I love to learn how things actually work, to build a simulated enigma machine in code and encrypt my own messages in a little console app. (And of course there are other samples out there of people who have already done it, but one doesn't truly understand it unless they have done it themselves.) 

It's not complete as of this writing. But I need to go to bed as it is 1 in the morning and I more stuff to learn tomorrow.

I have the basics of the machine down. The rotors which randomize the letters and the reflector which makes everything into a pair. 

So for example if you only had a four letter alphabet, the rotor would perhaps turn A to D, B to C, D to C and C to A. The Reflector creates pairs by returning A for B, B for A, C for D and D for C. You then send the letters back through the rotor the other way giving the reverse result. (A -> C vs C -> A).

Example with the rules described above 
Typing A will yeild:
A -> rotor-1 -> D -> reflector C - > back through the back of rotor 1 - > B 
Now typing in B will yeild:
B -> rotor-1 -> C -> reflector D - > back through the back of rotor 1 - > A

The way that things become hard to decifer is that fact that you can configure the rotor and the reflector to return different values. You get large numbers of possibile combinations. 

In my current set up: 
HELLOFELLOWLEARNERS 
Yields 
BCDDAPCDDAVDCOKTCKI

and of course 

BCDDAPCDDAVDCOKTCKI
yields
HELLOFELLOWLEARNERS

Goodnight 
