layout: post
title: "IIT Smart Grid"
categories: daily
excerpt: "If the load can be distributed better through out time, less infrastructure is needed, less resources are needed."
tags:
  - daily
  - green
  - environment
  - global warming
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-10-20T20:06:17-06:00
modified: 2016-10-20T20:06:17-06:00
---

I had the distinct privilege today to tour the [Galvin Center](http://www.iitmicrogrid.net/galvincenter.aspx) at the Illinois Institute of Technology. There are a lot of amazing things that they showed us about the cutting edge research they are doing in terms of smart grids and distributed energy production. However, I can't say I know enough on the topics to really add much to my readers knowledge base here. 

What I will share is a simple food for thought. New technologies and reducing consumption are always talked about as the way to combat climate change. This is not wrong, but I was acquainted with another piece of the puzzle today. (More like I was given a more detailed explanation of why that piece of the puzzle is important. 

That piece of the puzzle is shifting the time of your consumption. The simple example is running your washing machine. Washing your cloths at 6PM has a different impact than running your cloths at 3AM. In short it is because the load on the grid is less during the night (non-peak) hours of the day. That time of night the utility companies that supply power can power down some of the generation that they are doing. (Read not burn fossil fuels.) If the load can be distributed better through out time, less infrastructure is needed, less resources are needed.
 
 So get on board for smart appliances, smart lighting, smart devices. They are what make a grid "smart." These smart devices eventually will be able to communicate with utility companies and only run when is best. 
 
 I have plenty more to say on topics like this, so expect more on this sort of thing later :)
 
 
